Caching Reorg (#743)
cloudflare/workers-docs: src/content/about/using-cache.md

weight: 3
---

Workers provide a way to customize cache behavior using Cloudflare's CDN for a zone’s private cache space. To learn about the benefits of caching see our Learning Center's article on [What is Caching?](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/cdn/what-is-caching/)

## Interacting with the Cloudflare Cache

Cache is globally distributed and namespaced by zone of the incoming request, meaning a Worker script can not access or set a cache resource on an orange clouded zone’s namespace that differs from the zone of the incoming request.

Conceptually, there are two ways to interact with Cloudflare's Cache using a Worker:

> - Call to `fetch()` in a Workers script. Requests proxied through Cloudflare are cached even without Workers according to a default or zone’s configured behavior (e.g. static assets like files ending in .jpg are cached by default). Workers can further customize this behavior by:

Reviewer: How about, `... according to a zone's default or configured behavior ...`.

  - Setting Cloudflare cache rules (i.e. operating on the `cf` object of a [request](/reference/apis/request/).

>   - Setting custom cache headers (i.e. `Cache-control`). This can impact browsers as well as Cloudflare Cache behavior.

Reviewer: This bullet doesn't quite work: our cache actually ignores `Cache-Control` headers on requests. It's only on responses from the origin, or responses put via the Cache API, where `Cache-Control` is honored. Also, the ability to influence browsers' caches is orthogonal to whether the response came from `fetch()` or the Cache API, so might be a bit misleading to state here.

This bullet is worth putting under the Cache API bullet, without mentioning the browser, because it's an example of assets "that would otherwise rely on headers from an origin."

Author: ```suggestion
```
Thanks for pointing that out. I totally agree that comes off wrong. What do you think of splitting this into two paragraphs? like one for Cloudflare's cache (i.e. modifying request headers/settings to Cloudflare's cache) and one for setting browser cache control (i.e. headers on a response) what do you think is the best way to describe that? I think this part is important and would love to see if you come up with something better.

Reviewer: I think talking about browser cache control in a separate paragraph, sibling to the discussion of Cloudflare's cache, would make sense. I think the main points we need to make clear are: you can control either cache with a Cache-Control response header; if you send the response to Cloudflare's cache with `cache.put()`, the header controls Cloudflare's cache; if you send the response to the eyeball with `event.respondWith()`, the header controls the browser's cache.

One question I don't know the answer to is whether the Cache-Control header is returned on a response from `cache.match()` or `fetch()` (i.e., if I `cache.put()` something with a custom header, do I have to worry about that header leaking to the browser?). I imagine it might depend on what page rules are set.

Author: OK I changed the wording here let me know what you think @harrishancock

- Store responses using the Cache API from a Workers script. You can granularly control cache behavior of even assets not proxied on Cloudflare or that would otherwise rely on headers from an origin.

We won't discuss in this article, but other means to control Cloudflare's cache include: Page rules and Cloudflare cache settings. I highly recommend the article [How to Control Cloudflare's cache](https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/202775670) if you wish to avoid writing Javascript with still some granularity of control.

**What should I use: the Cache API or fetch for caching objects on Cloudflare? **

> For requests where Workers are behaving as middleware (i.e. they are sending a subrequest via `fetch`) it is recommended to use fetch. This is because pre existing settings are in place that optimize caching while preventing unintended dynamic caching. For projects where there is no backend (i.e. the entire project is on Workers as in [Workers Sites](/sites)) the Cache API is the only option for caching.

Reviewer: I'd recommend "only option to customize caching" instead of "only option for caching". If Workers Sites didn't use the Cache API, it would still benefit to some extent from the caching layer within KV.

### `fetch`

> In the context of Workers a [`fetch`](/reference/apis/fetch) provided by the runtime communicates with the Cloudflare cache. First, `fetch` checks to see if the URL matches a different zone. If it does, it reads through that zone's cache. Otherwise, it reads through its own zone's cache, even if the URL is for a non-Cloudflare site. Cache settings on `fetch` automatically apply caching rules based on your Cloudflare settings. `fetch` does not allow you to _modify or inspect objects_ before they reach the cache, but does allow you to modify _how it will cache_.

Reviewer: "... it reads through that zone's cache."

Maybe add, "(or worker!)."?

(I'm trying to win an award for my punctuation on that one.)

When a response fills the cache, the response header contains `CF-Cache-Status: HIT`. You can tell an object is attempting to cache if one sees the `CF-Cache-Status` at all.

This [template](/templates/pages/cache_ttl) shows ways to customize Cloudflare cache behavior on a given request using fetch.

### [Cache API](/reference/apis/cache)

> The Cache API creates a private cache key namespace for each zone on Cloudflare’s CDN. Cache objects are stored in the local datacenter handling the request and are not replicated to other datacenters.

Reviewer: I'd word it something like, "The Cache API uses a cache key namespace on Cloudflare's CDN that is private to the worker's zone."

My reasoning is that the Cache API doesn't really create anything, and `caches.default`, the one interface we document, actually uses the existing `fetch()` namespace.

> When to use Cache API:

Reviewer: When to use _the_ Cache API.

> - Attempts to read from cache without calling fetch. (i.e. send me the response to slow.com/resource if and only if it’s already a HIT on cache is cached using `caches.default.match(..)`.

Reviewer: I'd begin the sentence with something like "When you need to read from cache ...", to make it read more fluently following from "When to use the Cache API:"

> - Explicitly store a response in the cache using `caches.default.put(..)` and explicitly delete `caches.default.delete(..)`. For example, the zone. https://fonts.googleapis.com/css is not gray clouded since it’s not on Cloudflare, so we could store https://fonts.googleapis.com/css as cache key on our zone’s namespace.

Reviewer: Similar to the above, "When you must explicitly store a response ..."

I also think a better motivating example would be setting a Cache-Control on the response, in the event the origin cannot add one itself. Someone trying to cache `https://fonts.googleapis.com/css` would actually be better off using `fetch(..., { cf: { cacheTtl: nnn } })`. :)

> - Explicitly store a response in the cache using `caches.default.put(..)` and explicitly delete `caches.default.delete(..)`. For example, the zone. https://fonts.googleapis.com/css is not gray clouded since it’s not on Cloudflare, so we could store https://fonts.googleapis.com/css as cache key on our zone’s namespace.

Author: @harrishancock  How do you feel about 
```suggestion
- Explicitly store a response in the cache using `caches.default.put(..)` and explicitly delete `caches.default.delete(..)`. For example, say your origin is returning `max-age:0` and you can't figure out how to change that header at your origin. You can explicitly tell Cloudflare to cache this response by passing `cache-control: max-age=1000` to the response passed into `cache.put()`.
```
Or could you make an inline suggestion here?

Reviewer: Maybe: "setting `cache-control: max-age=1000` on" instead of "passing ... to", just to avoid saying "pass" twice. Otherwise, perfect!

Conceptually, there are two ways to interact with Cloudflare's Cache using a Worker:

- Call to `fetch()` in a Workers script. Requests proxied through Cloudflare are cached even without Workers according to a zone's default or configured behavior (e.g. static assets like files ending in .jpg are cached by default). Workers can further customize this behavior by:
  - Setting Cloudflare cache rules (i.e. operating on the `cf` object of a [request](/reference/apis/request/).

> - Store responses using the Cache API from a Workers script. You can granularly control cache behavior of even assets not proxied on Cloudflare or that would otherwise rely on headers from an origin by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Store responses using the Cache API from a Workers script. This allows caching responses that did not come from an origin, and also provides finer control:
```

>   - Setting `Cache-Control` as a header to the response passed Cloudflare's cache in `cache.put()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Customize cache behavior of any asset by setting headers such as `Cache-Control` on the response passed to `cache.put()`
  - Cache responses generated by the worker itself
```
